cody: VS Code 1.8.0 release (#6791)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2024/cody-vscode-1-8-0-release.md

  - name: Beatrix Woo
    url: https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/team/#beatrix-woo
publishDate: 2024-03-06T10:00-01:00
description: "This release includes several keyboard shortcuts, enabling login in VSCodium, reducing autocomplete latency, and fixing issues with chat stealing editor focus and displaying file ranges."
tags: [blog]
slug: "cody-vscode-1-8-0-release"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/cody-vscode-1.8.0-og-image.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/cody-vscode-1.8.0-og-image.png
--- 

We're thrilled to announce the release of Cody v1.8.0, our latest update to our VS Code extension. This release includes support for Claude 3, local Ollama models, and various feature improvements. Notable improvements include @-file line numbers, keybindings for custom commands, and improvements to local context fetching. 

## Claude 3.0 is now available!

Cody now supports Claude Opus and Sonnet - available for Pro users in Chat and Commands

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/claude3.png)

> ## Local Ollama models for Chat and Commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Local Ollama models for chat and commands (experimental)
```

> Cody now supports Ollama models for offline usage within chat and commands. Users can now pull open-source Ollama models locally and utilize them from your local environment. 

Reviewer: Another "users". Let's link to Ollama too:

```suggestion
Cody now supports using [Ollama](https://ollama.com) to run local models for chat and commands, available for Cody Pro users.
```

> Here's how to activate this feature:
> 1. Download Ollama from https://ollama.com/download
> 2. Launch Ollama (ensure the Ollama logo appears in your menu bar)
> 3. Choose a chat model (e.g., gemma:7b-instruct-q4_K_M) from the [Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library)
> 4. Pull the chat model locally (e.g., ollama pull gemma:7b-instruct-q4_K_M)
> 5. Enable the cody.experimental.ollamaChat configuration
> 6. Open a new chat in Cody
> 7. In the new chat panel, you should see the chat model you've pulled in the dropdown list

Reviewer: This should live in the docs.

```suggestion
To setup Cody chat to use Ollama:

1. Download Ollama from https://ollama.com/download
2. Launch Ollama (ensure the Ollama logo appears in your menu bar)
3. Pull a model down from the [Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library) (e.g. `ollama pull gemma:7b-instruct-q4_K_M`)
4. In your Cody VS Code extension settings, set `cody.experimental.ollamaChat` to `true`
5. Open a new chat in Cody
6. In the new chat panel, you should see the chat model you've pulled in the dropdown list
```

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/localollama.png)

## @-File now supports line numbers

Users can now add line number context to their @-mentioned queries by appending ':line-range' after file names. The line range will be parsed and used to generate more precise code links.

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/@file-line-numbers.gif)

## Keybinding Support for Custom Commands

Any user-defined custom command can now have a keyboard shortcut assigned. Simply search for `cody.command.custom.CUSTOM_COMMAND_NAME` (e.g. `cody.command.custom.commit`) in the Keyboard Shortcuts editor to add keybinding.

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-vscode-1.8.0/keybindings.png)

## Local Context is now refreshed daily

> We have implemented automated daily rebuilds for stale local context indexes used by Symf. The service now checks daily whether the codebase and Git metadata has changed compared to the latest indexed state.
> 
> This ensures Cody has an up to date representation of the codebase, and should see fewer confusing or inaccurate responses. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local search index, used by Cody Free & Cody Pro, now automatically updates every 24 hours to ensure up-to-date code is used for context, reducing the number of confusing or inaccurate responses.
```
